Assignment1:
Understanding Git: Write a concise explanation of what Git is, its purpose in version control, and why it is widely used in software development.

Git vs. GitHub: Explain the difference between Git and GitHub. Why is GitHub a valuable platform for collaborative software development?

Git Basics: Create a new Git repository on your local machine. Initialize it with a README file and make your first commit. Provide a screenshot of your Git commands and the resulting commit history.

What is Git?
Git is a distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency. It allows multiple developers to work on a project simultaneously without interfering with each other’s changes.

Purpose of Version Control:
Version control systems like Git track changes to files over time. This allows developers to revert to previous versions, track changes, and collaborate efficiently without the fear of overwriting each other’s work.

Why Git is Widely Used:

    •	Branching and Merging: Git supports powerful branching and merging features that allow for flexible workflows.
    •	Distributed System: Each developer has a full copy of the repository, including its entire history, which enables offline work and better collaboration.
    •	Speed: Git is fast in terms of both commits and operations, such as branching and merging.
    •	Community Support: A vast community of developers and numerous resources make it easy to get help and find tools that integrate with Git.

Git vs. GitHub

Git:

    •	Definition: Git is a version control system that allows developers to track changes in their source code during software development.
    •	Functionality: It operates locally on the developer’s machine, managing changes, branches, merges, and repositories.

GitHub:

    •	Definition: GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that lets developers manage Git repositories online.
    •	Functionality: It provides a web-based graphical interface and access control, along with additional features like bug tracking, feature requests, task management, and wikis for every project.
    •	Value for Collaborative Development: GitHub facilitates collaboration by allowing multiple developers to work on a project simultaneously. Features such as pull requests, code reviews, and issue tracking streamline the workflow and improve project management.

Git Basics: Creating a New Git Repository

Step-by-Step Instructions:

    1.	Open your terminal or command prompt.
    2.	Navigate to the directory where you want to create your project.
    3.	Run the following commands:
    # Step 1: Create a new directory for your project
    mkdir MyProject
    cd MyProject

    # Step 2: Initialize a new Git repository
    git init

    # Step 3: Create a README file
    echo "# MyProject" > README.md

    # Step 4: Add the README file to the staging area
    git add README.md

    # Step 5: Commit the README file to the repository
    git commit -m "Initial commit with README"

    git log
